key-value-engine: add rocksdb section (#15)
tikv/deep-dive-tikv: src/key-value-engine/rocksdb.md

# RocksDB

> RocksDB is a persistent key-value store for fast storage environment.

Reviewer: Would it be better like this?
```
RocksDB is a C++ library, which provides a persistent.....
```

Author: I actually copied that part from https://rocksdb.org, so I think it is fine :)

> TiKV uses RocksDB because RocksDB is awesome.  RocksDB is a persistent

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this point is a good introduction. Perhaps you can move it after the next sentence, or modify it to say "because it is a good fit"

key-value store for fast storage environment.  Here are some highlight
features from RocksDB:

> 1. RocksDB use a log structured database engine, written entirely in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. RocksDB uses a log structured database engine, written entirely in
```

   C++, for maximum performance. Keys and values are just
   arbitrarily-sized byte streams.
2. RocksDB is optimized for fast, low latency storage such as flash
   drives and high-speed disk drives. RocksDB exploits the full
   potential of high read/write rates offered by flash or RAM.
3. RocksDB is adaptable to different workloads. From database storage
   engines such as MyRocks to application data caching to embedded
   workloads, RocksDB can be used for a variety of data needs.
4. RocksDB provides basic operations such as opening and closing a
   database, reading and writing to more advanced operations such as
   merging and compaction filters.

> In this section, I will show you how TiKV uses RocksDB. I'm not going

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we will explore how TiKV uses RocksDB. We won't
```

> to talk about those basic features like `Get`, `Put`, `Delete`, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
talk about basic features like `Get`, `Put`, `Delete`, and
```

> `Iterator` here because their usage is simple and clear and works well

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Iterate` here because their usage is simple and clear and works well
```

> too. So I will focus some special features used in TiKV below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
too. Instead, we'll focus some special features used in TiKV below.
```

## Prefix Bloom Filter

> Bloom Filter is a magic that uses a little resource but helps a lot. I'm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Bloom Filter is a magical data structure that uses a little resource but helps a lot. We won't
```

> not going to explain the whole algorithm here. If you are not familiar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
explain the whole algorithm here. If you are not familiar
```

Consider providing some links to papers and/or resources to help them learn as well.

> with Bloom Filter, you can think it as a black box inside a dataset,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with Bloom Filters, you can think it as a black box inside a dataset,
```

> which can tell you if a key exists or not without actually searching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which can tell you if a key *probably* exists or *definitely* does not without actually searching
```

the dataset. Sometimes Bloom Filter gives you a false-positive answer
although it rarely happens.

> TiKV uses Bloom Filter and a variant which is called Prefix Bloom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiKV uses a Bloom Filter as well as a variant which is called Prefix Bloom
```

> Filter (PBF). Instead of telling you if a whole key exists in a

Reviewer 2: Please link to a paper or resource here.

Author: I add a link to the subtitle instead.

Filter (PBF). Instead of telling you if a whole key exists in a
dataset or not, PBF tells you if there are some other keys with the

> same prefix exists.

Reviewer: Can you point out the advantages and disadvantages of PBF, such as much more less memory consume?

TiKV supports MVCC, which means that there can be multiple versions
for the same row stored in RocksDB. All versions of the same row share
the same prefix (the row key) but have different timestamps as a suffix. When
we want to read a row, we usually don't know about the exact version
to read, but only want to read the latest version at a specific
timestamp. This is where PBF shines. PBF can filter out data which is
impossible to contain keys with the same prefix as the row key we
provided. Then we just need to search in the data that may contain
different versions of the row key and locate the specific version we

> want.

Reviewer: And maybe `PBF` consumes much more less memory?

Author: Although it is true, I think it is not related to what I want to express here.

changes. As mentioned above, we calculate the approximate size of each
region from the table properties. The approximate size will be
recorded in the memory so that we don't need to calculate it again and
again if nothing has changed. However, during compactions, some
entries are dropped so the approximate size of some regions should be
updated. That's why we listen to the compaction events and recalculate
the approximate size of some regions when necessary, according to the
compaction information from the events.

## IngestExternalFile

RocksDB allows us to generate an SST file outside and then ingest the
file into RocksDB directly. This feature can potentially save a lot of
IO because RocksDB is smart enough to ingest a file to the bottom
level if possible, which can reduce write amplification because the
ingested file doesn't need to be compacted again and again.

We use this feature to handle Raft snapshot. For example, when we want
to add a replica to a new server. We can first generate a snapshot
file from another server and then send the file to the new
server. Then the new server can ingest that file into its RocksDB

> directly, which is cool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directly, which is very useful!
```

We also use this feature to import a huge amount of data into TiKV. We
have some tools to generate sorted SST files from different data
sources and then ingest those files into different TiKV servers. This
is super fast compared to writing key-values to a TiKV cluster in the
usual way.

> ## DeleteFilesInRange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## DeleteFilesInRanges
```

Author: We actually use both, and I think `DeleteFilesInRange` is more general and easy to understand.

periodically to see if it contains a lot of tombstones. If it does, we
will compact the region range manually to drop tombstone entries and
release disk space.

We also use `CompactRange` to recover RocksDB from some mistakes like
incompatible table properties across different TiKV versions.

## [EventListener](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/EventListener)

`EventListener` allows us to listen to some special events, like
flush, compaction or write stall condition change. When a specific
event is triggered or finished, RocksDB will invoke our callbacks with
some information about the event.

TiKV listens to the compaction event to observe the region size
changes. As mentioned above, we calculate the approximate size of each
region from the table properties. The approximate size will be
recorded in the memory so that we don't need to calculate it again and
again if nothing has changed. However, during compactions, some
entries are dropped so the approximate size of some regions should be
updated. That's why we listen to the compaction events and recalculate
the approximate size of some regions when necessary, according to the

> compaction information from the events.

Reviewer 2: I think the 

> ..., according to the compaction information from the events.

Can be removed. It seems redundant.

## [IngestExternalFile](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/Creating-and-Ingesting-SST-files)

RocksDB allows us to generate an SST file outside and then ingest the
file into RocksDB directly. This feature can potentially save a lot of
IO because RocksDB is smart enough to ingest a file to the bottom
level if possible, which can reduce write amplification because the
ingested file doesn't need to be compacted again and again.

We use this feature to handle Raft snapshot. For example, when we want
to add a replica to a new server. We can first generate a snapshot
file from another server and then send the file to the new
server. Then the new server can ingest that file into its RocksDB

> directly, which is very useful!

Reviewer 2: We can explain why it is useful. :)

```suggestion
directly, which saves lots of work!
```

We also use this feature to import a huge amount of data into TiKV. We
have some tools to generate sorted SST files from different data
sources and then ingest those files into different TiKV servers. This

> is super fast comparing to writing key-values to a TiKV cluster in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is super fast compared to writing key-values to a TiKV cluster in the
```

usual way.

## DeleteFilesInRange

> TiKV used to use a straightforward way to delete a range of data,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, TiKV used the straightforward way to delete a range of data,
```

which is scanning all the keys in the range and then delete them one

> by one. However, disk space will not release until the tombstones have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by one. However, disk space would not release until the tombstones have
```

been compacted. Even worse, disk space usage will actually increase
temporarily because of newly written tombstones.

As time goes on, users store more and more data in TiKV until their
disk space is insufficient. Then users will try to drop some tables or
add more stores and expect the disk space usage to decrease in a short

> time. But TiKV didn't meet the expectation at that time. We first try

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
time. But TiKV didn't meet expectations with this method. We first tried
```

to solve this by using the `DeleteRange` feature in RocksDB. However,
`DeleteRange` turns out to be unstable and can not release disk space
fast enough.

A faster way to release disk space is to delete some files directly,
which leads us to the `DeleteFilesInRange` feature. But this feature
is not perfect, it is quite dangerous because it breaks the snapshot

> consistency. It means that if you acquire a snapshot from RocksDB, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
consistency. If you acquire a snapshot from RocksDB,
```

> then use `DeleteFilesInRange` to delete some files, then some data you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use `DeleteFilesInRange` to delete some files, then try to read that data
```

> should be able to read with that snapshot will be missing. So we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you will find that some of it is missing. So we
```
